design.md, before:

# Design work

> Note: The diagrams below will render in github, but they will be missing the icons. In order to render them in VS Code with the icons, install the `Markdown Preview Mermaid Support` extension

## General Approach
I generally like to start with requirements before picking technologies so that I can avoid unnecessarily coding myself into a corner. 

I also like to include debug checks that effectively bypass the order management service and go straight to the db via rest calls just to make it a bit easier to test. These will not have the level of testing I normally use because they are only here for the sake of testing as I develop and to make it easier for anyone reviewing this project to query the database directly. 

## Final Design

## Iteration as I worked

### V0.0 
<details>
<summary>Before any code </summary>

Initial thoughts: this feels like it could be overcomplicating things, so I am going to see how things go as I further develop.

```mermaid
flowchart LR;

  classDef white fill:white,stroke:#000,stroke-width:2px,color:#000

  User("<img src='https://super.so/icon/dark/user.svg'; width='25' /> User"):::white


  DebugService(Debug\nService**):::white
  DatabaseService(Database\nService):::white
  OrderManager(Order\nManager\nService):::white
  PaymentManager(Payment\nManager\nService):::white
  DB("<img src='https://super.so/icon/dark/database.svg'; width='40' />postgres\ndatabase"):::white
  AsyncScheduler(Async\nScheduler):::white
  AsyncDBWrite(Async\nDB Write):::white

  subgraph API*
    DebugApi(debug api**):::white
    PublicApi(public api):::white
  end

  User <--> DebugApi
  User <--> PublicApi

  DebugApi <--> DebugService
  PublicApi <--> OrderManager

  DebugService --> DatabaseService
  OrderManager -->AsyncDBWrite
  AsyncDBWrite --> DatabaseService
  OrderManager <--Sync DB Read--> DatabaseService
  OrderManager --> AsyncScheduler
  PaymentManager --> DatabaseService
  DatabaseService <--> DB
  AsyncScheduler --> PaymentManager
```
\* Both debug and public APIs will be set up in the same location for now.  
\*\* The Debug API and Service exist only for the sake of the takehome. In a real life environment I would take steps to lock them down properly, but in order ot make it easier to grade I wanted an easy way to get info from the DB through rest calls
</details>


### V0.1: 
<details>
<summary>After reading Kafka docs</summary>

Thoughts: I'm going to pretend race conditions don't exist for the sake of this takehome. In a real environemnt there would be a hold put on any data that could be updated in one of the write reqeusts so that you couldn't do multiple modification requests and any read requests would get back an indicator that the data being read is partway through being changed. 

```mermaid
flowchart LR;

  classDef white fill:white,stroke:#000,stroke-width:2px,color:#000

  User("<img src='https://super.so/icon/dark/user.svg'; width='25' /> User"):::white

  subgraph LogicServices
    OrderManager(Order\nManager\nService\n-Docker):::white
    PaymentManager(Payment\nManager\nService\n-Docker):::white
  end

  subgraph Kafka-Docker
    KafkaOrderTopic(Order\nTopic):::white
    KafkaDBWriteTopic(DB\nWrite\nTopic):::white
    KafkaPaymentTopic(Payment\nTopic):::white
  end

  subgraph DB
    DatabaseReader(Database\nReader\nService\n-Docker):::white
    Postgres("<img src='https://super.so/icon/dark/database.svg'; width='40' />postgres\ndatabase\n-Docker"):::white
    DatabaseWriterService(Database\nWriter\nService\n-Docker):::white
  end

  subgraph API-Docker
    ReadRequest(Read Request):::white
    WriteRequest(Write Request):::white
  end

  User <--> ReadRequest
  User <--> WriteRequest

  ReadRequest <--Sync REST Request--> DatabaseReader

  WriteRequest --> KafkaOrderTopic --> OrderManager

  DatabaseReader <--> Postgres
  OrderManager --> KafkaDBWriteTopic
  KafkaDBWriteTopic --> DatabaseWriterService
  OrderManager --> KafkaPaymentTopic
  PaymentManager --> KafkaDBWriteTopic
  DatabaseWriterService --> Postgres
  KafkaPaymentTopic --> PaymentManager
```
> The presense of - Docker indicates a docker container at that level
</details>

Commit message:

chore: DB-01 - Mostly commiting now because it has been a bit since I have and I don't want to lose progress

design.md, after:

# Design work

> Note: The diagrams below will render in github, but they will be missing the icons. In order to render them in VS Code with the icons, install the `Markdown Preview Mermaid Support` extension

## General Approach
I generally like to start with requirements before picking technologies so that I can avoid unnecessarily coding myself into a corner. 

I also like to include debug checks that effectively bypass the order management service and go straight to the db via rest calls just to make it a bit easier to test. These will not have the level of testing I normally use because they are only here for the sake of testing as I develop and to make it easier for anyone reviewing this project to query the database directly. 

## Final Design

### Database Services
So, why the two services? In order to maximize the value of async, I didn't want my rest api to have to wait for database writes. I also wanted to avoid having both sync and async db interaction in the same service if it could be avoided. In a larger environment there would need to be proper monitoring as this has the potential downside of there being some really hard to track down bugs. In the past I have used DataDog to monitor these kinds of microservice chains to better hunt down any bugs. Additionally there should be a validate and lock step somewhere in the chain. Something like this:

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    API-)ValidationService: New order
    ValidationService->>API: Request Ingested
    ValidationService->>DatabaseReadService: Get relevant info
    DatabaseReadService->>Database: Get info
    Database->>DatabaseReadService: Response
    DatabaseReadService->>ValidationService: Response
    ValidationService->>ValidationService: Validation
    ValidationService-)OrderProcessor: Order
    OrderProcessor ->> OrderProcessor: Process Order
    OrderProcessor -)DatabaseWriteService: OrderEntry
    OrderProcessor -)PaymentService: OrderEntry
    DatabaseWriteService -) Database: OrderEntry
    PaymentService ->> PaymentService: Process Payment
    PaymentService-) DatabaseWriteService: Payment Result
    DatabaseWriteService-)Database: Payment Result

```
Validation and DB read could be merged into one service potentially. Read from the DB once at the very start, lock the relevant elements, then write to it at the very end to unlock them. 

### Repeated Types
In a production environment I would suggest creating a shared types package that these microservices would import, ideally through a protocol buffer or similar serialized approach to save time and standardize. 

### Intent
I'm including an intent on all calls to make them easier to trace through the process. In a more fleshed out version of this solution, they could be used as part of the validation and locking step in the DB. 

## Iteration as I worked

### V0.0 
<details>
<summary>Before any code </summary>

Initial thoughts: this feels like it could be overcomplicating things, so I am going to see how things go as I further develop.

```mermaid
flowchart LR;

  classDef white fill:white,stroke:#000,stroke-width:2px,color:#000

  User("<img src='https://super.so/icon/dark/user.svg'; width='25' /> User"):::white


  DebugService(Debug\nService**):::white
  DatabaseService(Database\nService):::white
  OrderManager(Order\nManager\nService):::white
  PaymentManager(Payment\nManager\nService):::white
  DB("<img src='https://super.so/icon/dark/database.svg'; width='40' />postgres\ndatabase"):::white
  AsyncScheduler(Async\nScheduler):::white
  AsyncDBWrite(Async\nDB Write):::white

  subgraph API*
    DebugApi(debug api**):::white
    PublicApi(public api):::white
  end

  User <--> DebugApi
  User <--> PublicApi

  DebugApi <--> DebugService
  PublicApi <--> OrderManager

  DebugService --> DatabaseService
  OrderManager -->AsyncDBWrite
  AsyncDBWrite --> DatabaseService
  OrderManager <--Sync DB Read--> DatabaseService
  OrderManager --> AsyncScheduler
  PaymentManager --> DatabaseService
  DatabaseService <--> DB
  AsyncScheduler --> PaymentManager
```
\* Both debug and public APIs will be set up in the same location for now.  
\*\* The Debug API and Service exist only for the sake of the takehome. In a real life environment I would take steps to lock them down properly, but in order ot make it easier to grade I wanted an easy way to get info from the DB through rest calls
</details>


### V0.1: 
<details>
<summary>After reading Kafka docs</summary>

Thoughts: I'm going to pretend race conditions don't exist for the sake of this takehome. In a real environemnt there would be a hold put on any data that could be updated in one of the write reqeusts so that you couldn't do multiple modification requests and any read requests would get back an indicator that the data being read is partway through being changed. 

```mermaid
flowchart LR;

  classDef white fill:white,stroke:#000,stroke-width:2px,color:#000

  User("<img src='https://super.so/icon/dark/user.svg'; width='25' /> User"):::white

  subgraph LogicServices
    OrderManager(Order\nManager\nService\n-Docker):::white
    PaymentManager(Payment\nManager\nService\n-Docker):::white
  end

  subgraph Kafka-Docker
    KafkaOrderTopic(Order\nTopic):::white
    KafkaDBWriteTopic(DB\nWrite\nTopic):::white
    KafkaPaymentTopic(Payment\nTopic):::white
  end

  subgraph DB
    DatabaseReader(Database\nReader\nService\n-Docker):::white
    Postgres("<img src='https://super.so/icon/dark/database.svg'; width='40' />postgres\ndatabase\n-Docker"):::white
    DatabaseWriterService(Database\nWriter\nService\n-Docker):::white
  end

  subgraph API-Docker
    ReadRequest(Read Request):::white
    WriteRequest(Write Request):::white
  end

  User <--> ReadRequest
  User <--> WriteRequest

  ReadRequest <--Sync REST Request--> DatabaseReader

  WriteRequest --> KafkaOrderTopic --> OrderManager

  DatabaseReader <--> Postgres
  OrderManager --> KafkaDBWriteTopic
  KafkaDBWriteTopic --> DatabaseWriterService
  OrderManager --> KafkaPaymentTopic
  PaymentManager --> KafkaDBWriteTopic
  DatabaseWriterService --> Postgres
  KafkaPaymentTopic --> PaymentManager
```
> The presense of - Docker indicates a docker container at that level
</details>
